---
title: 'My Path to Learn Web Development'
description: This post describes my 2 year journey of learning to code
date: '2015-09-07'
---

In November of 2013 I was one month from graduating with a BA in Communications. I hadn’t found a real job, or even an internship, and I was starting to worry. While working part time in a warehouse, of all places, I heard about a site called Codecademy that taught technical Web Development skills for free. I figured it would be a good idea to gain some useful technical skills as a back up plan so I joined Codecademy that day and began learning.

At this point I did have a very small background in html, as I had taken some classes in high school back when we were taught to create layouts using tables, and to include our styles inline. This background, as small as it was, helped me to breeze through the html and css courses, and I loved it. I then moved on to their javascript course, though I didn’t understand at all how it was applicable to the Web at the time. This was much more difficult for me to pick up because I had no experience with data types of any language or how to manipulate them. I got through it eventually and moved on to jQuery, ruby, and python. At the time there wasn’t a lot of material on Codecademy, and I realized that I would have to look elsewhere if I wanted a deeper knowledge.

I started looking at websites like Udemy and Coursera, and tried a few free courses, but they also didn’t seem deep enough or focused enough to get me the knowledge I was looking for. I’m sure that there are some good premium courses offered on these sites, but I was hesitant to spend \$100+ on a course without knowing if it would have what I was looking for, so I moved on.

After a few days of Google searches and research, I came across Team Treehouse, and I signed up for a free trial. I really liked their style of teaching which uses a combination of videos, quizzes, and coding challenges, so I subscribed past my trial and continued learning more and more.

With Treehouse I gained a deeper knowledge of html and css, and I learned to build static websites from scratch. Then I spent a few months working my way through their php developer track, and learned to build an ecomerce site that used mysql as a database. I felt pretty comfortable with php after completing the courses, and I could imitate the project I had built throughout the courses, but I didn’t feel like I could really transition that into a career just yet. There seemed to be too much hand holding. A lot of the courses would take you step by step through building a specific website, and then leave you not knowing how to do much else. This was the unfortunate problem that I found with Treehouse. I could take the initiative and try to apply the things I was learning, but Treehouse did not push me to do that.

This was when I decided to pause my Treehouse subscription and try to build some projects on my own. It was a lot harder than I thought it would be to stay motivated with a lack of structure to my learning, so I ended up taking a break from coding for a few months. Eventually, my brother got me back into coding when he reached out to let me know that there was a junior WordPress developer position that would be opening up in another month or so at his workplace.

I enrolled back into Treehouse and started working my way through their WordPress track. Since I already had a pretty strong background in html, css, and php, I was able to move through it pretty quickly. After about a month of that, I had gone through a few courses and built my first custom theme. However, my brother then informed me that they had decided to hire a senior developer instead.

Despite this, I was determined to keep learning anyway, and it was about this time that I came across Free Code Camp, which offers a 1,600 hour full stack javascript curriculum. That was about 2 months ago, and I am currently over two thirds of the way through. In these last two months I feel like I have progressed more as a developer than I had in the year and a half prior. Rather than holding my hand through Web projects, Free Code Camp requires that I complete challenges of increasing difficulty, but doesn’t give me all of the steps to complete them. Instead, I am directed to various pages and documentations that will help me along my way. I am therefore forced to figure things out on my own. My focus is now on completing the curriculum at Free Code Camp, but I still have my account on Treehouse. Treehouse is a great learning resource and I still use it to solidify my learning.

While I do not recommend others to take such a long drawn out path to learn web development, I was able to gain a very solid programming foundation by learning the basics of so many languages, and I believe that my rapid growth in the last couple of months is in large part due to this foundation. If you are interested in learning to code, then I do recommend that you pick one language and stick with it. You obviously need a strong background in html and css, but after that there are tons of options. I have wasted so much time trying to learn the “most useful” language for finding a job only to hop from language to language and ultimately find that there is no “most useful” language. There will be tons of available jobs no matter what you choose.

I still have a long way to go, and I wish I would have started this blog a long time ago, but I hope that it will be a resource for others who are looking to get into this exciting field.
